.

There have been many different contact tracing solutions developed
around the world. Here, we will mainly discuss solutions of which the
technological implementation is widely published and open-source. These
includes:

-   Singapore's BlueTrace

-   DP3T

-   Apple & Google Exposure Notification

Most contact tracing solutions rely on the use of mobile phones. Almost
each and every mobile phone nowadays supports two different types of
technology that can be utilize for contact tracing: Bluetooth and GPS.

There are contact tracing applications that use GPS, such as Israel's
[@TheShield1] and South Korea's contact tracing app [@Korea1]. However,
the GPS approach pose some significant issues.

-   The first issue is accuracy. According to [@BlueTrace1], in
    comparison with Bluetooth, GPS is far less accurate, especially in
    indoor environments. For instance, GPS cannot recognize people on
    different floors in the same building.

-   The second issue is privacy concern. Having the application tracking
    their location all the time may discourage users from using the
    application.

On the other hand, Bluetooth is not only more accurate, but also allow
users to better protect their location data. Therefore, it is the
approach that we choose for our contact tracing application.

There are also two different approaches in how the collected contact
tracing data manipulated:

-   : the contact tracing data on each phone is sent back to a
    centralized server (of a government or a health organization). On
    the server side, people who are exposed to COVID-19 can be
    identified.

-   : the contact tracing data is encrypted on each phone before being
    sent to a centralized server. The centralized server only acts as a
    intermediary, collecting and broadcasting the data to other users.
    When the application receives the data from the server, it locally
    works out if its user is exposed to COVID-19 or not.

A notable example of a centralized contact tracing application is . The
government has full knowledge of the identity of the user [@BlueTrace1],
and whether they are exposed or not. However, this causes privacy
concern among users, thus hampering the adoption of the application.
Only 25% of Singaporean installed the application [@UserAcceptance2]

Some decentralized are being developed and refined, most notably DP3T -
developed by a group of scientists from multiple pretigious universities
around the world, and Exposure Notification - developed by Apple and
Google. These system are significantly better at safeguarding user
identity and exposure data, which can only be revealed if the user
voluntarily do so. The details of how their systems work will be
discussed in the later part.

Random Ephemeral User-IDs are used in all three systems that we are
discussing: , , and . The purpose of this is to protect user's identity:
if a user has multiple random IDs in a day, it is hard for attackers to
track who is who. However, the execution is a bit different on each
system.

For , according to their white paper [@BlueTrace1], IDs are generated by
the centralized server using and then are downloaded to each user's
phone. The encryption key is kept in the server, so that the government
can still work out the identity of each user. Apart from privacy
concern, another issue is that this system requires regular Internet
connection for the application to pull down new IDs from the server.

On the other hand, for and , the application will generate the user-IDs
locally using irreversible [@DP3T1] [@ExpoNoti2]. This means that, if
one user-id of user $A$ is $id_{A}$, then . Further details will be
discussed in later part.

A contact tracing application does speed up the process of contact
tracing, but it cannot completely replace human work. When the
application detects that a user is exposed, it does not necessary means
that the user is infected - this is called a "false positive\". This
issue is discussed in [@BlueTrace1]. Further information may be required
for the health authorities to decide what to do next. This is our
rationale behind our Q&A functionality: the health authorities can use
the application as a communication platform with the user to obtain
further information.

.

-   Tracing human contact

-   Tracing location

For COVID-19, tracing human contact is not enough - as COVID-19 can
survive in the environment for a certain period of time (). Therefore,
we need a method to do location tracing without raising privacy
concerns.

Some criteria needs to be fulfilled:

-   :

    -   The identity of the user has to be protected, and can only be
        reveal if the user deliberately publishes his or her data.

        -   Random ephemeral IDs can be used to conceal user's identity:
            The ever-changing nature of this approach will make it hard
            for attackers to trace out users. Each user will have a new
            user ID every 2 hours. (the duration is not fixed; requires
            further research/expert advice)

        -   Only the user can recognize his or her IDs: even if the
            server is exposed to security threats, or if the server is
            being monitored by any organization, the identity of the
            user will still not be leaked to anyone. This can be done by
            generating the IDs locally.

    -   The chance of two people having the same ID at the same time
        must be extremely low: else we will have a "false positive\"
        case.

-   :

    -   To align with the user-business-government cooperation model
        that we discussed, we will use QR Code for location tracing
        purpose.

    -   All the QR Codes that the user scanned should be stored locally
        and encrypted.

    -   We should provide a way for businesses and the authorities to
        check if their customers have scanned the code or not. This can
        be done by asking the customer to rescan the code. The app will
        notify if the same QR code has been scanned in the last $x$
        hours. After the period of $x$ hours, no further checking by the
        businesses or the authorities can be done. The location data
        will still be stored on the device and will only be published if
        the user agrees to do so. (the duration $x$ is set based on the
        type of business)

-   :

    -   (some more discussions here)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   The user IDs are randomly generated locally on each user's phone.

-   When and come into close distance, the two mobile phones will
    exchange user IDs: Alice's phone will save a copy of Bob's ID and
    vice versa.

-   Later, is diagnosed and confirmed by the health department to have
    COVID-19.

-   is authorized by the health department to upload his "list\" of
    close contact to the server. It is more like a "blackbox\" than a
    list: no one can extract user IDs from it. When the app on 's phone
    has downloaded the "blackbox\" $B$ from the server, it will do
    comparison locally like this: For each ID $id_{i}$ of , the
    operation $B(id_i)$ will either output $true$ if the $id_i$ is in
    the blackbox, or $false$ if $id_i$ is not in the blackbox. If any ID
    of is in the blackbox, the app will notify her.

.

-   :

    -   When a user and a business place, such as a supermarket, or a
        restaurant, he or she has to use the app to scan the QR Code at
        the entrance.

    -   The police can do occassional drop-ins to check if the
        businesses follow the QR Code restriction. We will allow the
        police to do this by asking the user to do a special "check
        scan\". This will notify if the user has scanned the QR code of
        the business place or not.

    -   The scanned QR Code stored on the device and is not sent to the
        centralized server.

-   -   The user will be authorized to upload the list of QR Codes to
        the server. The identity of the user is not included.

    -   The application on the phones of other users will periodically
        pull these lists down from the server and do comparison locally.

    -   When doing local comparison, if there is a matched location, the
        app will notify the user that he or she may have been exposed.

    -   The authorities, having full knowledge of the location list on
        the server site, will decide on the next action.
